hi i'm jane from e to language i've done
IELTS speaking and i got a 9 the most
difficult part for me and probably the
same for you if section 2 where you have
to speak for two minutes about a mundane
topic it's tough and it's stressful i
want to show you a super strategy to
make it way easier i'll speaking super
strategy in the second section of IELTS
speaking the examiner will hand you a
task card you'll have one minute to
prepare and then two minutes to speak
about this topic the task card looks
like this talk about a gift you received
you should say who gave it to you what
it was what it looked like and explained
whether or not you liked it speaking
about this topic for two minutes
requires you to add a whole lot of
information and to go round and round in
circles it's scary because it's
unnatural super strategy there's a way
to do this that makes it much easier and
will radically increase your speaking
score you need to divide your talk into
three parts past present and future
ultimately what you need to do is tell
three different stories one about the
past one about the present and one about
the future
each story should go for about 30 to 40
seconds and be based on the task card
each story will use different verbs to
show past present and future by using
different verbs you will achieve a much
higher score telepath story here's the
task card again
here's my past story when I was young I
used to receive a lot of presents from
my grandmother she was extremely
generous although she had six
grandchildren she was always excellent
at giving presents to each of us that
meant a lot to us while she would always
give us gifts on our birthdays and at
Christmas she would also sometimes just
surprise us I used to visit her a lot
when I was a kid she lived in the city
and our family lived in the countryside
going shopping for gifts was always so
exciting
one particular gift she gave me was a
cricket bat it was made of English
willow and I loved it
it had very bright stickers on it I used
to take it to school and all the other
boys were jealous of it this story
covers all of the dot points on the task
card and uses all past tense verbs let's
look carefully at these verbs was used
to was had was meant would always give
etc by using past tense verbs I'm
showing the examiner my skills and my
story only has to go for 30 to 40
seconds tell a present story here's the
task card again
although it says talk about a gift you
received you don't need to follow the
task card exactly I can now talk about a
more recent gift and use present verbs
here's my present story more recently my
girlfriend gives me presents all the
time
she is also extremely generous most
recently she gave me a black jacket I
love it it's trendy and modern and
really warm in winter I also give her
lots of presents although I'm not as
good at choosing gifts as she is she has
taught me a lot about gift-giving and
how important it is I guess I've learned
recently that gifts especially in a
romantic relationship they're really
important maybe more important for women
than men she really likes it when I give
her gifts they don't have to be
expensive but something like a flower or
a block of chocolate makes her really
happy but yeah the jacket she gave me is
something that I really treasure this
story covers all of the dot points on
the task card and uses mostly present
tense verbs look carefully at these
verbs gives is love it's give I am has
taught et cetera
by using present tense verbs I'm showing
the examiner my skills and my story only
has to go for 30 to 40 seconds tell a
future story here's the task card again
you'll have to practice this strategy
because it makes time go very quickly if
you have time left at the end should
tell a future story here's my future
story in the future I'd like to receive
a gift from my father he owned the nice
old motorbike and I'm hoping that one
day he'll give it to me
I'd love to ride around on that
motorbike it's black and it's powerful
and it looks awesome I guess I'll have
to wait for that motorbike those my dad
adores it so he won't give it to me
easily
I might have to wait until he's too old
to ride it then I might ask him politely
whether he can give it to me I'd love to
ride around the countryside on that old
motorbike this story covers all of the
dot points on the task card and uses
mostly future tense verbs and modal
verbs let's look closely at these verbs
I'd like I'd love I'll have to wait
won't give might have to wait
etc
by using future tense and modal verbs
I'm showing the examiner my skills and
my story only has to go for 30 to 40
seconds or maybe less depending on the
clock full example when I was young I
used to receive a lot of presents from
my grandmother she was extremely
generous although she had six
grandchildren she was always excellent
at giving presents to each of us that
meant a lot to us while she would always
give us gifts on our birthdays and at
Christmas she would also sometimes just
surprise us I used to visit her a lot
when I was a kid she lived in the city
and our family lived in the countryside
going shopping for gifts was always so
exciting
one particular gift she gave me was a
cricket bat it was made of English
willow and I loved it it had very bright
stickers on it I used to take it to
school and all the other boys were
jealous of it more recently my
girlfriend gives me presents all the
time
she is also extremely generous most
recently she gave me a black jacket I
love it it's trendy and modern and
really warm in winter I also give her
lots of presents although I'm not as
good at choosing gifts as she is she has
taught me a lot about gift-giving and
how important it is I guess I've learned
recently that gifts especially in a
romantic relationship are really
important maybe more important for women
than men she really likes it when I give
her gifts they don't have to be
expensive but something like a flower or
a block of chocolate makes her really
happy but yeah the jacket she gave me is
something that I really treasure in the
future I'd like to receive a gift from
my father he owned the nice old
motorbike and I'm hoping that one day
he'll give it to me I'd love to ride
around on that motorbike it's black and
it's powerful and it looks awesome I
guess I'll have to wait for that
motorbike though as my dad adores it so
he won't give it to me easily I might
have to wait until he's too old to ride
it then I might ask him politely whether
he can give it to me I'd love to ride
around the country
that old motorbike recap IELTS speaking
section - is difficult because it asks
you to tell one story for two minutes
but if you split it into three stories
and use a variety of verbs that will
make it much easier to speak for two
minutes and it will increase your score
because you're using more complex
language practice for one-on-one
speaking feedback from experts who have
taken the tests themselves go to e tu
language comm and sign up for free